>> Hello. Good morning.
(Applause).
Welcome to Time Machine In-Depth.
I am Deric Horn. I'm the Application
Technologies Evangelist,
and before joining evangelism I used be a
member on the file system engineering team.
And being here today really reminds me of
a time when we were developing HFS+.
At that time we had gotten HFS+ up to the point where
we were able to finally copy a file onto an HFS+ volume,
and this was really a huge accomplishment for us.
But, about that time as well, WWDC was right around
the corner, and I don't know if you guys know this,
but some sort of a California law that every presentation
at the conference has to have at least one demo,
and I think in my mind I was picturing
what our demo would look like.
Sitting there in the Finder and
copying a file onto a volume.
Not much of a demo.
So that's really one of the reasons
why I really love Time Machine.
It really emphasizes the use of the
file system, and it's really, I think,
going to be probably the number one user feature
that's going to drive adoption of Leopard to our users,
and cause people to upgrade from Tiger to Leopard.
After all, the most important thing
about our machines is our data.
So, how many of you out there have
actually tried Time Machine yet?
Wow. Okay.
Good. About half of you.
I don't know if your experience was exactly like
mine, but the first time I plugged in that volume,
and I did that backup, it was almost
like a-- this-- this new feeling I had.
This different relationship I had with my computer.
It was almost like I just unloaded
this backpack full rocks on the ground.
I mean, it was like, now I have this safety net.
I felt really free to go around and
try thing I had never tried before,
going on into Photoshop, trying new filters, plug-ins.
I didn't care if undo was supported or
not, because I felt like I always had undo.
I could always go back to the version that file I just had.
Right away I found myself on like Version Tracker,
downloading new shareware, trying new things.
So it was really this kind of this-- this enlightened
feeling I just had with my machine after that,
because I always felt safe right
next to me, all my files right there.
I could always go back to that stable state I was just in.
By now a lot of you have probably
heard about Xcode Snapshots.
So, Xcode snapshots are the ability to when you're working
a project in Xcode, you take a snapshot, try something new,
if you screw up, you can always go
back that to that safe snapshot.
Well, Time Machine implements this idea of snapshots,
across the board for all your applications.
So whether you are in Photoshop or any other
application, if you screw something up,
you just go right back to that safe
place where you were, that safe snapshot.
So what were some of the goals we
had when we designed Time Machine?
Well, obviously the goal was to protect our data.
To provide the safety net.
But we wanted to do something that was
really that provided the seamless integration
of a backup solution onto your system.
Something that went beyond what normal backup solutions do
and really make it intuitive for all users to understand how
to use and to be able to retrieve their data.
We wanted to be able to backup our data and keep
it in-- in a file format that everyone understands.
We're not going to use encryption,
we're not going to use compression.
This way in the future you don't have to worry about,
you know, do I have a method to unencrypt this file?
Do I have this method to unstuff this file?
Is that company around that still
developed this encryption technology?
Do your files just sit on regular HFS+ volume?
It's as easy as copying-- copying them back over, so it
makes it very easy, very intuitive to use and to understand.
Now that being said, Time Machine 1.0
isn't going to be everything for everybody.
It's not designed to be an enterprise-level solution.
We don't have these goals in mind of I have my university
of
4000 machines, I need some encrypted offsite storage,
and Time Machine's going to provide
all the functionality you need.
No. Time Machine was designed for our typical usage in mind.
Small businesses, users, home usage, and so forth.
And probably one of the neatest things about Time Machine,
and I'm going to say this about a lot of the technologies
in Leopard, is that it's really well integrated across
all of Mac OS X. So, the typical place where we're going
to be using Time Machine is directly within the Finder.
Go ahead and find that directory that contains
those files that you're going to--that you want
to find these older versions of these files.
Once you find this directory, this folder, this window,
you enter the, you click on the Time Machine icon
and you enter this Time Machine presentation mode.
Now, I think from there that's where
this intuitive user interface comes in.
I think it's very intuitive to
understand that depth represents time.
The further back you go, the older in time you go.
All the way back to when the Big Bang was.
We also have integration of Time Machine into a
number of our applications in Mac OS X. So again,
I may have added a number of contacts into
my Address Book before this conference.
And then maybe-- and after the
conference I delete those contacts.
A month later I want to go back and find that person that I
wanted to have contact with, not in my Address Book anymore.
I go ahead and open up Address Book, from the Address
Book application itself, I click the Time Machine icon,
and I'm presented with that same
familiar Time Machine user interface.
And I can go ahead and go back in
time and reconcile those records.
Now the interesting thing about this is
that Address Book, behind the scenes,
actually has to have two versions of
its database open at the same time.
So, it's not working on a file-by-file basis.
And it's going to go ahead and reconcile
those individual records and move them across.
Similarly we have integration with
iPhoto, as well as the Installer.
So, we've all been told, make a backup
before you install new software.
Nobody does it.
I've never done it.
But right now we make it very easy to do.
It's as simple as clicking a checkbox
before you install your new software.
If things get screwed up you can
always go back to that safe place
where you were right before you installed that software.
In addition, we have integration with the Migration
Assistant.
So, you may have all of you data on the MacBook
Pro, slips out of your lap, drive gets broken.
Now, unfortunately you have to go out and buy a new MacBook
Pro, but the good thing is with the Migration Assistant,
you can now move all of your data from one of those Time
Machine snapshots back onto your current new volume.
So, now that I've described a little bit about technology,
you're probably wondering why did it
take us so long to write Time Machine?
Well, it turns out Time Machine really
leverages a number of technologies
which are really just now coming to life in Leopard.
So, a typical backup scenario--
a typical backup scenario,
involves scanning your entire source
volume and your entire destination volume.
So really what I mean by that is we
might have a million files on our volume.
The backup solution now has to go ahead and
scan every single file in our source volume,
every single file in your destination volume, compare
things like modification dates, attributes, file sizes,
when it finds a difference copy those across.
Now that takes a long time to scan 2 million files.
So now in Leopard we have a new file
system technology called FSEvents.
This provides file system event notification.
So for instance, when we want-- when we launch
Time Machine now, Time Machine can then say,
"Tell me all the files that have changed in the last day."
FSEvents will then send us a list of
directories containing only those changed files.
So that accounts for the blazing speed we see in
Time Machine when we do those incremental backups.
We also leverage another-- a number of
other technologies in the file system.
Things like EAs--
Extended Attributes.
That-- this allows us to tag some
extra metadata onto the files.
This metadata then can be searched by Spotlight,
maybe the metadata contains information
such as whether the Time Machine backup is in
progress, the last time of the backup and so forth.
Eric Weiss will go into details
about this a little bit later.
We actually had to change the volume format
of HFS+ to accommodate Time Machine.
So when you think about it, on your
system, out of those million files,
there's really only a few files
that actually change over time.
So, for instance, everything in that
/System directory, it rarely changes.
So to get better performance out of Time Machine,
we introduced a new concept, and this is the concept
of being able to create hard links
to directories themselves.
Again, Eric will talk more about this in a
little bit, but the idea being here if nothing--
if nothing changes in my /System volume, don't go ahead
and create all these folders or-- or
links to files that already exist
for better speed. Let's just say that /System
is exactly the same, create directory hard link,
or what we call an archive directory
link, to this original /System.
Come on. Quick Look.
So by now you guys have all heard of Quick Look, I'm sure.
Quic kLook is another one of those technologies that
is pervasive throughout all of Mac OS X. It's used
in Spotlight, it's used in the Finder, it's used in your
open save panels to provide those little previews,
and probably what I think is the most important place
where Quick Look is used, is directly in Time Machine.
So currently the workflow using a backup solution
would involve something like I'm a graphic artist.
I drew a picture and I remember that
picture had maybe a small red balloon on it.
Okay, go over on my backup, retrieve
this file, put it on my volume,
double click it, launch Photoshop, no, not the right file.
Go back to find the other backup, and repeat this process.
It's not a great user experience.
So now with Quick Look, directly from this Time Machine
presentation mode, you can go ahead and finds these files,
hit the space bar, presents a Quick Look preview, not the one
I'm looking for, go back one more version, hit the space bar.
Really increases productivity and that user workflow.
And lastly, Core Animation.
So I don't believe that Core Animation is just eye candy.
I think that Core Animation is really responsible for
providing this rich, kind of intuitive user interface.
This is the first time that we're seeing
a backup solution that doesn't use things
such as tables and lists to portray the data.
It's portraying the data in a whole new
way and that's through Core Animation
being able to animate and show you your snapshots over time.
So now let's talk about Time Machine 2.0.
The ability to get your documents before you write them.
So what do we need for Time Machine 2.0?
(Laughter) Okay.
Wrong presentation.
I must have made a mistake here.
Let's go ahead and look at Time Machine
and see if we can get the right version.
So I'm just going to give you a quick
little tour of how Time Machine works.
The most common scenario, we'll find a directory here and we
want to go ahead and find the older version of this file.
So in this one I am going to go ahead and look
at a representation of my presentation.
Simply click on the Time Machine icon, and
we are presented with this user interface.
The first thing you'll notice is on the right-hand
side, a number of these tick marks are white,
and as we go back in time you will notice the grey ones.
The white ones represent the snapshots that we have made
and the grey ones are where we don't have that data.
So as you can tell my first backup was
probably made on May 30th, for instance.
And there's a number of different ways we can
navigate within this Time Machine presentation mode.
For one, you can notice it's very similar to the Finder.
If we-- if I decide this isn't the right folder
I can go ahead and click around from here.
You will notice that all the other
windows now change their titles.
So, I can go ahead and navigate back to where I was.
By using these arrows over here, it will
automatically zoom us back to that version to--
to the version of that directory which
has something different in it.
So as I click back, nothing has changed
for a number of days here and now all
of the sudden we will see, okay, we
have 2 files in this directory.
We can also go ahead and click on
individual directories over here.
But I'm going to go ahead and try and
find that file that I'm looking for.
I don't know, was this it?
We can check just by hitting the
space bar, and again we'll be presented
with this Quick Look preview of what was in the document.
It's that easy.
Directly from Time Machine.
I know that's still the-- that's still the wrong
presentation, we'll hit the space bar again.
Go back in time a little further.
Let's keep on going back.
Okay. I think this is the right one, let's
go ahead and check it out in Quick Look.
This is the right presentation.
So to restore it, we'll just go ahead and click the
restore button, and as you can see through animation,
it will just bring us right back into today's time.
And ask us if we want to replace this original file.
So it doesn't just replace that original file, we can
keep both of them, replace it, or keep the original one.
In this case I'm going to go ahead and
replace, I'll go ahead and keep both of them.
So we have the original one and the new one.
That's a little bit to see how Time Machine works.
(Applause).
At this time I'd like to welcome Robert Ulrich on stage to
talk a little bit more about the details of Time Machine.
(Applause)
>> Thank you.
(Applause).
So, hello.
I am Robert Ulrich.
I am an engineer.
I work on Time Machine.
And, here's what we're going to talk about here.
What's new with Time Machine, how
it works, and tips for your application.
I'm going to cover more of the high-end
sort of user experience,
and Eric will talk about some of the low-level details.
So, what's new this year in Time Machine?
Well, we've added a lot of stuff.
We have simplified the options, we've added automatic setup,
we have added backup to the servers and AirPort disks.
A lot of stuff.
So we'll cover some of that now.
So, we've simplified the options this year in Time Machine,
so now everything is much simpler and much easier to set up.
You'll see this in your seat, it's
really, really easy to deal with.
And here's some of the stuff that we've done.
First of all, we've eliminated the on/off switch.
There is no more on/off switch.
Time Machine is always running, there is-- it's just a
question of whether you want to do it manually or automatic.
So, if you turn on the automatic switch, we just back it up.
You no longer need to set the backup
time, it just happens for you.
And that's all you need to do.
So, when you do automatic backups, what happens now
is your machine is automatically backed up every hour.
That's why you no longer need to set
any time, it just happens every hour.
The hourly backups are kept on a rolling basis for 24
hours, so after the file has passed 24 hours we'll--
we'll remove the oldest one and we'll make a new one.
And-- but the first one that happens every day
after midnight will become your daily backup.
So, one of those every day gets saved as a daily backup,
and then we have a rolling list for the last 24 hours.
We've also added support for backing up your disk when--
when it's-- when a FireWire or USB disk has been attached.
And we haven't backed up for
a while, which is really useful.
So, if you turn off automatic backups for some reason,
you can still do manual backups and you just go
to the control panel and press
Back Up Now and we'll back it up.
In this case if you turn off automatic
there's no hourly backups done,
they are just done on a demand
basis when you press the button.
One of the features that we have had a lot of requests for
and we've added this year is Stop
and Resume, which is very useful.
So, if your machine is in the middle of doing a backup
and you need to go, you can now stop your backup.
You can-- and then we'll remember where we were and we'll
pick it up later, so if you come back later and just start,
you can just go back and press Start Back Up again,
and you'll continue from where you
are going-- from where you left off.
And this is especially useful if your machine is in the
middle of doing a backup and you need to shut it down
or take it on the road, then we'll
just stop what we're doing and we'll--
we'll pick it up later when we do a backup again.
So, whenever we backup your system, we always backup
everything you need to do a single-click reinstall of an--
and get an entirely bootable system with all of your
user accounts and all your system files and everything.
When we do this, we keep the system data for everything and
that turns out to be on the order of a couple of gigabytes,
but because it doesn't ever change,
it stays roughly constant.
So even though, you know, even if you save
your-- your system files are not huge, you know,
you've got like a 500 gigabyte hard disk and you're talking
about a few gigabytes, so it's not a not a big penalty
to keep your system and have always a full
rebootable system which we think is really important.
So, but if you decide that you really don't want
to keep your system file, this is primarily useful
if you always do a full install off of a DVD and you
prefer to do that versus restoring your full system.
You can choose to turn-- skip system files now.
And in this case, you'll-- you'll save
that few gigabytes from your system,
but it means that you won't have a full rebootable--
a fully bootable restore from one button.
Now, fortunately, the-- the important thing here is we're
still-- we still work right with the Migration Assistant
and the Installer, so that we haven't
saved your system files,
but we're able to restore all your user
files on top of a fresh DVD install.
So in this case you're still-- you're still able to
get back to a full system with all your user accounts
and all the permissions are set up and everything.
So this is really important.
If you do turn on this-- this-- this option, by the way,
it will speed up your initial backup because we won't have
to grab any of those system files on your initial backup,
but it really doesn't effect any incremental backups.
So, because the system files don't change for
the most part, unless you do a system update,
most of the time this makes no difference in performance
so you're not penalized for keeping your system files
around which is really, really a good thing.
So, even if you decide to keep everything, there--
I just wanted to point out there are some
directories which we automatically skip.
And these are a few of them here.
Primarily there are things that are cached like
~/Library/Caches, /Library/Caches Spotlight,
metadata, things like that, that can be rebuilt later.
Temporary directories, of course,
because they have got files that are
that have just been written for temporary reasons.
Device mounts because individual devices
are backed up as individual devices.
And network-- network mounts, because we don't want--
we don't want your backup to be traversing your
local network and backing up other peoples' machines.
And-- and FileVault images, and I'll
get into that-- in that in a little bit later,
because there-- they're handled separately.
So, now we have an even simpler configuration than before.
You simply go and choose a disk, and you are done.
There is no step two.
(Laughter) So, this is even easier than last year.
You don't have to set times to backup, you
don't have to do anything, you just choose disk.
And we have even gone a little bit step
further, as Steve mentioned in his keynote,
we've now added single-click backup setup.
So, what I've got here is a FireWire hard disk.
And I'm going to take a machine here, this machine
has never been set up for-- for Time Machine.
And I'm just going to plug this disk onto here.
Like so. And the disk appears on the Desktop.
We notice this.
And...okay.
Well...Maybe-- maybe somebody did
plug a disk on here before.
Let's try this-- another one.
I didn't. Okay.
Well...I guess I didn't pray to the right demo god today.
So, what would have happened-- (Laughter) --
had somebody not already set up Time Machine on those
machines...is you would have seen this dialog.
Do you want to enable Time Machine?
So by default, now, you just simply plug a time-- you simply
plug a FireWire disk or a USB disk onto your computer,
and you'll be asked, would you like to enable Time Machine?
And you say, yes, and you are done.
That's it.
There is no longer any step one
even, and we detect new disk,
we configure things for you and you're just set up to go.
So, part of how we do this is we changed
the default configuration of Time Machine.
Now automatic is turned on for you, automatically, so as
soon as we have a-- as soon as we get a disk set, we--
we're running, so automatic is turned on.
All your system files are backed
up, your boot volume is backed up,
and all your volumes containing user accounts are backed up.
So, if you have to-- if you happen to have user
accounts which don't reside on your boot disk,
we'll grab those volumes as well so
that we get all your user accounts.
So, we've added Spotlight integration now,
which you should have seen in Steve's keynote.
So that if you don't happen to find this on your
disk, if you don't happen to find a file on your disk,
you can start searching your backups
and see if it happens to exist on your backup.
And if in-- in Spotlight knows about a particular
file, maybe referenced in multiple backups,
Spotlight knows about this, so if you won't
return multiple hits, beyond the ones that--
if a file only exists once but it's in many backups,
you'll only see once which is kind of useful.
And one thing I wanted to mention, this is not included
in the WWDC build, this is fresh, bleeding-edge code here.
So, as you go on and use your backups these
days, now, especially with automatic backups,
what's going to happen is over time
you're going to get more and more backups.
It's going to fill up your disk, so we have added an option
to optionally remove automatically old
backups for you to recover their space.
(Applause).
Thank you, I guess.
(Laughter) So let's talk about how-- how all that works.
So, to begin with, whenever you delete
a backup, you don't delete everything
that appears-- that you apparently have in your backup.
So, as I make a backup here, as we can see, we've got a
Backup number 1 and it has 3 files in it, A, B and C. So,
if I go work on my computer for
awhile and then I do another backup,
in this case what's happened is I make another backup, and
in this case I've removed file A, so it's not in Backup 2,
I've left file B the same, so it's still there, I've
modified C, so now I have a new version of C in Backup 2,
and I've added a file D. So here's a case where I've got
two backups. There is 5 files existing on disk, so if--
but, and-- and Backup 1 appears to have 3 files.
But if I-- if I remove Backup 1, now,
those go away and I lose files A and C,
but B is still around, even though it was in Backup 1.
So because of this, removing a particular backup
doesn't remove everything that you see in that backup,
it removes only data that is unique to that backup.
So, if we look at it that way, rather than seeing one huge
backup, and then, you know, other backups that are also huge,
rather we have a set of-- of individual backups where
each one contains a certain amount of unique data.
So if I remove any one, I'll only remove some
amount of data and the amount of data depends
on how much stuff changed in that
particular backup when I made it.
And so, if we look at that over time, we
end up with something that looks like this,
where over time I've got a bunch of backups and each
one of them contains a certain amount of unique data
to that backup that would go away if I removed it.
So the first thing is, that we do, is we
always keep the backups that you specify.
So if you say keep, you know, couple weeks, then
we-- we lock those down and we never touch them.
Then, we go and we remove using a non-linear
distribution, we remove files-- we remove backups that--
with a tendency to remove older
backups more-- sooner than newer ones.
And you-- we'll see as-- as this goes on we'll
drop out more files, we'll drop out more files,
and we end up with something looking kind of like this.
Where we have the ones that are guaranteed up
front, and then we have a bunch of files left
that cover the entire time span, so we haven't removed--
we haven't done anything like just lop off the last
end snapshots, but we've actually kept them over time
and they're just more-- there's more of them
upfront because you tend to be making those--
those tend to be the files that you are actively working
on where you might need to go back to one from a day ago,
versus one from 6 months ago, you're probably only going
to need to go back as an, you know, archive measure.
So, another feature we have added in encrypted backups.
This is really useful because nowadays we've all
got those little disks and they're everywhere,
and we can either misplace them, somebody could
break into the house and steal it, or, you know,
your roommate could just decide he wants to look at
all your files and he can't get on your machine,
but he can the get the hard disk because you are not
home and plug it onto his machine and try to read it.
So, in this case, we backup onto an encrypted HFS+
disk image.
This is protected by a single machine-wide password
that if you don't know, you can't mount the disk.
But we have a-- we write a key into the assistant key
chain so that when it-- when it's attached to your machine,
we can read it, we can do backups to it, we can
restore from it without any user intervention.
So, for-- for those of you who know what FileVault,
this is our-- this is account encryption facility,
where you can have your entire account encrypted
and not readable by anyone else on the machine.
So you have been using FileVault, we now
support backing up FileVault accounts.
FileVault accounts are backed up
only when the user is logged in,
because normally it's just an encrypted
disk that we can't read.
But when you are logged in it'll,
it'll occur, and each backup is--
each account is backed up on its own encrypted
disk image which is encrypted individually,
but we also put just as with regular FileVault accounts,
we put a mass-- the system master password on top of it,
so that the admin is able to restore all the-- the
entire system including all FileVault accounts.
So, this year we've added support for backing up to servers.
And we back up to servers by backing up to an HFS+
disk image on the server for each machine.
So each machine has its own individual backup image.
And each-- each machine-- so you can have multiple
machines back up on a single server, and as--
as Deric mentioned earlier our focus is not on the
enterprise but on the individual computer and LAN workgroups,
so you have, hopefully, a few of these but not thousands.
So, for working with MacBooks, of course, the-- the--
being able to backup to the server is really great
because now when you come home you can turn on your
machine and you can just backup to the server
or the AirPort Extreme that you've got in your house.
You can also-- also as I mentioned earlier, we have
added support for automatic backup on disk connection.
So that if you connect a FireWire or USB disk and you
haven't backed up for a while because you've been out
on the road, we'll notice that and we will say
it's been a while, so we'll go ahead
and start a backup even if it's not on the hour.
So, finally I wanted to put a plug in for how you can
work with Time Machine, and the answer is Quick Look.
Quick Look is very important to Time Machine.
It is key to-- to how Time Machine operates.
When their-- when your users go into their old backups
and they want to find that file that they have lost,
the way that they can find-- figure out which
files-- they might have 5 files named the same thing
that are different ages, the one-- how are they going
to find the one that they want is using Quick Look.
So if you have an-- if you have a file format which
isn't a standard file format, place add a plug-in for--
for Quick Look so that users can
see their files in Time Machine.
And as a bonus, it works right-- it works
with Finder, it works with Spotlight,
it works with iChat Theater, so
it's, you know, this is important.
Write a plug-in!
And, just so that you will, we have sessions
tomorrow, there's a session at 3:30 in Mission 2,0
that will-- that's Getting Started with QuickLook.
So that will be-- that will go over everything you need
to do to write one, and then if you on Friday there's a--
there's a Lab in-- at noon on how to-- that
will actually help your write your first one.
So now I'd like to do a quick demo of this,
and assuming it works better than the last one.
So, I have-- I was looking for some cars earlier, because
I was thinking about, you know, it's time to get a new car.
And I was talking to the loan guy, it was ACME was the
name of the company, and here's some of the stuff I did,
and now I can go back in Time Machine, because I know
that I had some quotes on several different cars,
and I don't remember which one,
but I can go back and I can find,
I've got a bunch over time, and
I, oh, was this the one I wanted?
I'm not sure, I can look at it, and I can easily
just go and look at it with Quick Look, say,
the Porsche Carrera, that might be a little pricey.
I had some ones before I was looking at.
Let's see.
This one? Oh, yeah, that's the one
I was looking at, the Infiniti G5.
It's a little bit less than the 911,
and I think I can swing that price.
Now the important thing to notice here is this
is a machine that does not have Excel installed.
So I'm still able to look at this as Steve showed in
his keynote and I can look at all the information.
This is something that was sent to me by somebody
else, and I'm still able to look at it and view it,
and this is the kind of thing that you
can get by adding Quick Look to your--
to your-- adding a plug-in to Quick Look from you.
So...And so now I would like to go ahead and
bring up Eric Weiss who is going to talk about some
of the low-level implementation details
of Time Machine and how it all works.
(Applause)
>> Thank you.
Hello there.
My name is Eric Weiss. I'm a software
engineer. I work on Time Machine's backend,
specifically on a process called backupd whose
job it is to wake up, make a backup for you,
and go away, hopefully, without getting in your way.
Here we go.
So I'm going to give you a little bit more detail on how it
is that-- that Time Machine actually works when it's going
about making backups, and hopefully,
give your an idea of how you guys
as application developers can-- can take advantage of it.
So, there are 4 things I'm going to talk about.
First is we're going to take quick look at what it
is that a backup actually looks like on your disk.
So, obviously the preferred way for
you to, as a user go and recover and--
and view your backups is through the-- the Time Machine UI.
But, if you, say, want to take your backup disk and
plug it into a Tiger machine and look at your backups,
you actually are actually capable of browsing your backups
entirely through the Finder as though it were a live disk
that you were looking at, so I'll show you
exactly how it is that that actually looks.
Also if you're-- if you're going to interface
with Time Machine backup library programmatically,
you'll want to know what the layout looks like.
Second I'm going to discuss some features that we take
really, really heavy advantage of in Time Machine.
So, not-- not things that backupd itself implements,
but public features available to all of you guys
that let us get backups done and
get them done very, very quickly.
If you don't know about them, maybe
you'll want to learn about them
and take advantage of them in your own applications.
Third, with those features in mind, we're going
to run through very quickly how it is that--
that backupd goes and makes a backup for you.
And finally we'll talk about what you guys as
App Developers, as Tool Developers can do to work
with Time Machine and help each other out.
So, first, let's take a look at the
structure of a backup on your disk.
At the top level you have your-- your disk.
As Robert mentioned, we need to be backing up to an HFS+
volume, because there are lots and lots of features
that have been-- some added to HFS+ in Leopard, some in
Tiger, and we rely on them very heavily within Time Machine,
and so we make you back up to an HFS+ volume.
The top-- top level of the volume you'll see a
folder called Backups with the extension backup DB.
This is the only place Time Machine writes anything, so if
you're looking for Time Machine content, that's where it goes.
Underneath there you'll see a folder, associated with every
computer that you're backing up onto that backup disk.
In this case, I'd just be backing up my
own Mac Pro, but say I were in a small--
small home, I might have 2 or 3 other machines
all being backed up to that same disk,
and here's where you would see the content
for each of those individual machines.
Underneath that you'll see the actual
library of backups for that machine.
So, each of these 3 folders underneath
Eric's Mac Pro is a backup.
The name of each of the folders corresponds
to the time that backup was completed.
So, for instance, the middle one, the highlighted
one would be a backup completed on June 12th at noon.
And finally if you look inside one
of those backups, you'll see the--
the disks that you're backing up
on that-- on that date and time.
So, once you get down to this level,
you can browse those disks
as though you were browsing them as
a mounted live volume in the Finder.
Here we go.
There are a couple of special cases, one of which
is FileVault accounts that you are backing up.
As Robert mentioned we added support for
backing up FileVault accounts since the--
since last WWDC, and if you look for FileVault backup
content, it will all be in a folder called FileVault Accounts
at the top level of your-- your backups
database, or your machine database.
And inside of there you'll see an encrypted disk
image of each user you are backing up.
As I think Robert mentioned, we can only backup
FileVault accounts when the user is logged
in because that's the only time
that the the disk image is mounted.
But, if you go and look at that disk image you'll see a
backups.backupdb directory at the top level and then each
of the backup snapshots for that-- that user.
Keep in mind there won't be a one-to-one correspondence,
necessarily, of system backups to FileVault account backups
because of that requirement that the users be logged in.
And finally if you are backing
up to a network location, we--
we require HFS+ to backup, as I've said a couple
times already, but we want people to be able to backup
over the network. So the way we do this, is to create
disk images at the top level of the network volume
which are themselves formatted
HFS+ which we can write
into as though they were local volumes,
as though we have-- as though a sandbox.
So, we support AFP, for instance, if you have a fancy new
AirPort Extreme and you can plug in a disk, or SMB, or NFS,
and in that case, yeah, it's pretty simple, top level of the
volume you'll see a disk image, encrypted or not according
to your preference, and if you mount that disk image
it will look exactly like the previous two cases.
All right.
So now I'm going to talk about some of the publicly
accessible core technologies that backupd uses in order
to get backups done and get them done quickly.
There are 4 things that I want to talk about, sorry, 5.
The first is Extended Attributes.
Extended Attributes are not new to Leopard,
they were added in Tiger to HFS+,
and they allow you to apply attributes to-- to,
sorry, key/value pairs to file system objects.
Files and directories, which essentially
let's you treat them, least from my perspective
as though they were programmatic objects.
We use the file system extremely heavily in Time
Machine, and so, we need to store lots of data
on files, and this is-- this is the way we do it.
Next, Access Control Lists, ACLs, again, added in Tiger.
But if you don't know about them,
you might-- might be curious.
This is how we protect your backups
against accidental tampering.
Next the FSCopyObject API, the final
feature I'll talk about added in Tiger.
It's been enhanced a whole bunch in
Leopard and this is a fantastic Copy API.
If you need to copy things, whether or not you're
doing
it from a backup, I highly recommend FSCopyObject.
It's super fast, it's robust, and it's used by
all sorts of applications on the system.
Time Machine uses it to copy everything,
Migration uses it to copy out of backups,
and Finder uses it to copy everything
whenever
it makes a copy.
New to Leopard is a feature called Archive
Directory Links, added to HFS+,
which essentially gives us the
ability to hard link a folder.
Which is how we represent an unchanged
hierarchy of files and directories very, very quickly.
And the FSEvents API.
So there's a session on the FSEvents API and-- and for
a whole lot of detail I recommended you go to that.
It's in Pacific Heights at 3:30, I think
it's called Introduction to FSEvents.
FSEvents is a notification mechanism
for file system events.
Whenever it is that you change a file on disk, you
can not only be notified live of that change happening,
but in Time Machine's case, we
wake up at some point and we want
to say what's happened on these
two disks over the last week.
Which is the last time we ran a backup, and we'll
get a list of all the directories that we care
about without needing to scan them all individually.
Looking a little bit closer at each of
these features, first, Extended Attributes.
As I mentioned they're just key/value pairs
that you store on-- on file system objects.
And the things that we really like about
them is that 1) since they are file system--
since it's a file system feature, obviously they're
stored persistently across reboot, they let us--
let us query whatever information we need
to about-- about backups that we have.
For instance, here's some stuff, some things we used them
for. One is to when we go to make a backup we want to figure
out what the last backup was very quickly.
We do this by remembering an attribute on each of the
backups saying what date if was completed, so we look up,
we find that the folders that has the last completed date,
the one that's most recent, and
that's our most recent backup.
And finally if you look at the directories
associated with each volume you're backing
up you'll see a bunch of Extended Attributes on them.
Oh, I should mention that these are certainly not
things I would recommend relying on existing here.
I'm just giving you a couple of
examples of what we use them for.
But, right, if you look at the directory containing
a backup of a volume, you'll see a volume UUID,
so every HFS volume has a UUID associated with
it, which ends up being super useful for our case,
because when we have a backup of your volume, it might have
a certain name, but if you rename your volume we don't want
that to force us to make a whole
new backup of that volume again.
So, rather than relying on the name of your
volume, we-- we rely on the UUID not changing.
Archive Directory Links.
These guys are new to Leopard as I mentioned,
and if you know what a hard link is,
these guys are hard links to folders.
So, what they do for us is they let us
super quickly represent a directory of
files and folders that could be N levels deep,
in a single operation.
The thing that's very nice about them is that
they are browsable since they're implemented
in the file system they're browsable
seamlessly through Finder and through Terminal.
If you go and look at them they look
exactly like normal directories.
And they degrade to aliases on Tiger systems.
So you can take your backup volume,
plug it into a Tiger system
and still navigate it and view your backup content on it.
If you don't know what a hard link is I
will just very quickly explain what it is.
So, normally you have a file which gives you
a reference to some blocks
on your disk and its link count is originally 1.
So if you create a hard link to that file, you end up
with another reference to those actual blocks on disk,
this would be as opposed to a simlink or an alias
which would essentially be a-- a pointer to--
sorry, a simlink would essentially be a small file
that just includes the path to the original file.
Instead you actually have another reference to those blocks
on disk which lets you do the neat trick of deleting one
of them and still being able to access that
content on disk through the other hard link.
And finally, when you get rid of the last
hard link, there goes the actual blocks
on disk and they're freed to be reclaimed.
So this is the basic principle that we rely on in order to
compress our backup content and keep it-- keep it small.
In the case of an Archive Directory Link, common backup
scheme that involves hard links would have one that--
let's say you are backing up this one directory and nothing
changed inside it, a lot of backup schemes will do something
where they'll hard link each of the files underneath
that directory which requires you
to make end hard links for end
files underneath that top level.
What we do in Time Machine is replace those
three links just to make it painfully obvious,
with a single hard link to the
top level of that-- that volume.
Access Control Lists.
These guys added to-- to Tiger, again, but not sure how
many people actually use them and they're super useful.
The reason that we use them in Time
Machine is for essentially two reasons.
First of all they can be applied on top of and in
coordination with POSIX permissions and other ACLs.
So when you copy something into the backup
store, we want to be able to protect it.
We don't want someone to accidentally browse through
their backups, not realize they're inside their backups,
and open something up, modify it, delete it, and whatnot.
So we want to-- we want to protect
the content of the backups.
So we-- we apply these ACLs to them, that-- that
tell people you can't-- what do we have on there,
don't add anything inside here, don't delete
it, don't modify it, etc., etc.
And the nice thing is since we're not doing that through--
through a POSIX permissions, when you go and restore
that content later we don't have to worry about it being
out of sync with what you had originally
put in your backup content.
All we have to do is, and we do this through the
FSCopyObject API is strip off the ACLs that were put on
there as they were copied into the backup store.
There we go.
And finally the FSEvents API. Again, I
highly recommended going to the session on it.
The FSEvents API, managed by fseventsd, is the guy that
tracks the list of events, the event history that's happened
on all the drives that you are backing up.
So you can get-- you can get events
live, you can get events historical,
and this is how Time Machine very quickly
figures out what it is that we need to backup.
Now I wanted to mention one-- one thing about
this that I think illuminates the-- the--
the greatness of this feature is that there are
situations where you might not have an FSEvent record.
For instance, let's say I take my backup disk,
remove it from Leopard, plug it into a Tiger machine.
So, we don't have the FSEvents even running on Tiger,
and so there would be-- what happens
when I go and make changes there?
Well, nobody knows about those changes, and
when I go and plug it back into the Leopard
and make another backup, I wouldn't want to
have just a bunch of stuff that I had done
that the Time Machine knows nothing about.
So, the FSEvents framework is able to tell me that
that drive was modified elsewhere, and sorry,
it can't tell me what those changes were.
Which requires backup, or sorry, which requires
Time Machine to have this separate fallback path
that actually does the manual scanning of your--
your previous backup with the entire
contents of all your disks being backed up.
And so, if you want to see how much faster you get to be
when you look at the historical event record, and you--
you take advantage of it, give that a try and then press--
press backup, then you'll see that it takes quite a long time
on the order of 5 to 10 minutes to scan a very large disk.
Which speaks volumes to the-- the
effectiveness of FSEvents.
Now, we'll put those features together and briefly
discuss how it is we go about making a backup.
First backup is-- is pretty simple.
There's not too much trickery you can do with that.
We basically take all your disks and we are going
to copy everything from disk A to backup A,
obviously filtering out the directories Robert mentioned
which have your temporary stuff, your cached stuff.
And all the copying happens through the FSCopyObject
API which takes care of slapping the ACLs on all
of your backup content so that we
don't let people modify it later.
The more interesting case is an incremental backup
where the first thing we do is we wake up,
we find the most recent backup that we
have, and we query the FSEvents daemon.
We say what's changed in my backup structure.
Let's say I have 4 items that I'm backing up, 4 folders.
The FSEvents API might say folders B and D changed.
We then know that those are the only two places that we
have to look for any other changes, so we'll scan inside B,
we'll scan inside D, we will copy whatever
it is that we have to into the new backup.
Finally we make 2-- 2, sorry, I perform 2 other operations
to say hard link A, hard link C. These could be directories,
these could be enormous directories like /System,
and that's it and we're done making a backup.
Except, there are a couple other things we do.
One is that we want to guarantee that the point
that we finish a backup, you have a-- a-- a--
a coherent piece of information that says this is exactly
what my disk looked like at this given point in time.
So once we're finished a backup we do this extra pass
where we say, we ask the FSEvents API,
did anything change during the course
of this backup that we actually care about?
And if so, we'll do another pass making another backup of
that smaller set of content, and the nice thing is this will
eventually catch up quite quickly, because as we complete
backups, there is less stuff that's changed and so we have
less things-- or fewer things we have to look
at and we finish even quicker.
And finally, the last thing we do is-- is put a
bunch of attributes on the backup that we have,
erase all the ones that we made in the
middle, and make that your new backup.
So, I am going to make a quick demo for you.
This is largely because Deric, in
his desire to show off HFS+ back
in the day, always really wanted the demo copying a file.
So now I am going to, in fact, demo copying a file.
Okay. So, here's the machine I've been looking at earlier.
Let's just do something to generate
some kind of file system activity.
I'll duplicate this-- the presentation, I believe this
is the presentation from 2008 that your saw earlier.
We open up the Time Machine preference.
(Laughter) Not that copy, the next one.
Oh no. What's happening?
Huh.
(Applause).
Let's see if I can give this one more shot.
Go away. Work this time, okay?
Oh, man. Okay.
I guess copying a file will, in fact,
have to wait for yet another year.
(Laughter) Trust me, it's very cool though.
But anyway, what you would have seen had I been able
to actually make a backup is that despite the fact
that we're backing up an entire system and there are, what
is it? It looked like, as of a couple days I took a look
and there was something like 92,000
files and 400,000, sorry--
400,000 files, 92,000 directories in a typical install.
Oh, could I have the slides back?
Oh. Well, I hear that it's not spinning anymore.
So, could I have the demo back one more time?
Sorry. Yes.
All right.
Okay. If it spins again,
it's your fault, Robert.
All right.
(Applause) There we go.
So, again, my-- this disk has about
92,000 directories, about 400,000 files,
the only thing I actually changed was that on my desktop.
And hopefully through the magic of FSEvents, we see that we
have already figured out what it is that we need to backup.
Now it is that we're copying those files as
they were, the ones that were changed.
So it's probably taking a little bit longer because
there's a bunch of stuff that actually changes
in the background just in the course
of keeping your machine up and running.
And so it has to come back and get all of that.
So we've just made a backup.
(Applause)
Thank you very much.
And, third thing I'd like to talk about, sorry, the
final thing I'd like to talk about is how it is that you
as app developers and tool developers
can work with Time Machine.
So lots of ways you can do it.
One: If you have any interest in copying things
out of the backup store, you can totally do this.
This is just fine, but you have
to use the FSCopyObject API.
That's actually a good thing because the
FSCopyObject API is really, really good.
And it's really well tested, and it's been
improved a whole bunch in Leopard simply
because Time Machine copies an enormous amount of stuff
and we've been working very closely with them to-- to--
to make it as good as it possibly can be.
It's extremely fast, it's robust, it knows
about all the stuff that I've talked about.
It knows about the Archive Directory Links,
it won't have a problem copying them.
It knows about the ACLs because it put them on in the first
place and it can strip them off on the way out, and
it's used by all sorts of applications throughout
the system.
Secondly, you're an app developer and
you have-- you use the file system.
Let's say you have documents that you
create or you write a bunch of files.
Here's are bunch of things that you can do.
There are 3 that I'd like to talk about.
One is if you write a lot of files or you write big files,
exclude the ones that you don't need to have backed up.
Second, try not to have directories that have huge
numbers of files in a flat directory structure.
That just makes backup a little bit slow.
It's not tragic if you do it, but it will slow things down.
And finally, if you have really-- really big
files that change constantly, try and avoid those,
because that will eat people's disk place very quickly,
and the most important as Robert mentioned and--
and Deric mentioned also, please support
Quick Look if you have  document types.
So, if you're excluding stuff there are things that you
should exclude, obviously temporarily files, cache files,
index files, anything you can rebuild. The easiest
way to get this stuff excluded is just to put it
in a standard directories for these sort of things.
If you do that, Time Machine has logic built in where it
will not go ahead and backup anything that you're putting
in your /tmp directories, your cache
directories so that's probably the easiest way.
But if that doesn't make sense in your
particular case, we have some API for you.
There are 2 versions of this API.
CSBackupSetItemExcluded. And what you do is you call this
on a path, and you say, depending on the value your giving
to an excludeBy Path, either Time Machine will remember
that specific path and never backup whatever happens
to live there at that time, or if this is an item that you
don't want to backup that might move across the file system,
set-- pass false to that, and we'll set an extended attribute
on this specific item that you don't want to backup
and we'll track that wherever it goes and
make sure that it never gets backed up.
Finally, sorry, thirdly, if you-- if you're using the
file system, heavily, again, try not to create really,
really big files that need to change all the time.
The problem that we have with them is that we're
making backups every hour, and when we do that
and you have a several gigabyte file, unless people
have enormous hard drives we are going to fill those
up pretty quickly.
The easiest way to avoid that or-- or the-- the, economical
example of something to avoid is an enormous file most
of which is static but you have some-- some indexable
content that you are constantly updating on that file.
And finally, yeah, if you have a-- if you have a single
folder that has a huge number of files inside it,
this is going to slow backup down, because,
as I mentioned a couple of times, we're,
we're creating these Archive Directory
Links and this is one of our real--
really major performance advantages is being able to-- to
skip these really big directories as quickly as possible.
But if you have a very flat structure and a single thing
changes in it, so you have a 10,000 file folder and one file
in it changes, we can't create a directory link to that
and we need to scan the entire contents of that folder;
we need to scan the entire contents of your previous
version of that folder, and make 9,999 hard links to--
just so we can copy over a new version of one file.
So, again, just slows us down a little bit, it's not
tragic, but if you can avoid it, that would be fantastic.
And, finally, again, support Quick Look.
If you have your own document style
this is the best way to look fantastic
in Time Machine, and they are pretty easy to write.
So, that's all that I have for you.
And, thank you very much, we're
going to move on to Q&A now.
(Applause)